# Customer Analysis for Healthcare for All

Case Study: 

A Fund Raising Net Return Prediction Model“Healthcare for All”, is a not-for-profit organization that provides financial help to people who are not able to afford healthcare. “Healthcare for All” raises funds through donations from all across the country. They have an in-house database of over 13 million donors. “Healthcare for All” has been consistently raising money through various campaigns to request people to contribute to their cause. They reach out to the donors through various channels including personal mails, emails, fundraising events, reaching out to other businesses and corporations, and other philanthropists. One of their most efficient channels for a long period of time has been direct mails. But for the last couple of years, they have seen a decline in the donations through this medium. You are working for “Healthcare for All” as an analyst. You will be analyzing the results of one of their recent direct mail fundraising appeals. This mailing was sent to a total of 3.5 million “Healthcare for All” donors who were on the database as of June 1997. Everyone included in this mailing had made at least one prior donation. The mailing included a gift (or “premium”) of personalized name & address labels plus an assortment of 10 note cards and envelopes. All of the donors who received this mailing were acquired by “Healthcare for All” through similar premium-oriented appeals such as this. One group that is of particular interest to the organization is “Lapsed” donors. These are individuals who made their last donation 13 to 24 months ago. They represent an important group to the organization, since the longer someone goes without donating, the less likely they will be to give again. Therefore, the recapture of these former donors is a critical aspect of their fund raising efforts. However, it was found that there is often an inverse correlation between likelihood to respond and the dollar amount of the gift, so a straight response model (a classification or discrimination task) will most likely net only very low dollar donors. High dollar donors will fall into the lower deciles, which would most likely be suppressed from future mailings. The lost revenue of these suppressed donors would then offset any gains due to the increased response rate of the low dollar donors.GoalTo improve the cost-effectiveness of future direct marketing efforts, “Healthcare for All” wishes to develop
